What is programing language?
Answer: A programming language is a formal language, which comprises a set of instructions that produce various kinds of output. Programming languages are used in computer programming to implement algorithms. Most programming languages consist of instructions for computers
What JDK contains or composed of and define each component?
Answer: The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and applets. It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development.

What is IDE?
Answer: Integrated Development Environment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Answer: IntelliJ Idea, NetBeans, Eclipse, BlueJ, jEdit, Android Studio etc.

Explain the entire java life cycle.

What is class?
Answer: A class is a user defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created. It represents the set of properties or methods that are common to all objects of one type.
What is object?
Answer: Object is an instance of a class which has stake and behavior.

What is the entry point of an application?
Answer: Application entry points are used to control users' access to different versions of an application that is deployed on a platform. They are also used to create an application context to monitor the resource usage for applications and to identify an application being run.
Why main is static?
Answer: Main is static because keyword static allows main to be called without creating an object of the class in which the main method is defined. Without having declared main method static, our program will successfully compile but won't execute and report error at run time.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer: Object class is the superclass of all classes.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer: Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables. Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer: Interfaces are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations. An abstract class can have instance methods that implement a default behavior.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? if not how do you use it ?
Answer: No, we can’t make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class. We can use Interface by using keyword Implements and Abstract class by using inheritance (extend).

What is Access Specifier?
Answer: Access specifier are keywords in object-oriented languages that set the accessibility of classes, methods, and other members.

What is OOP? Define each feature of java OOP.
Answer: OOP stand for Object Oriented Programming. These are four main features of OOP such as Encapsulation, Data Abstraction, Polymorphism and Inheritance.
Encapsulation – Implementation hiding.
Abstraction – Data hiding.
Polymorphism - Polymorphism is the ability of an object to take on many forms. There are two types of polymorphism. They are overloading and overriding.
Inheritance - Inheritance is a mechanism wherein a new class is derived from an existing class.


What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer: A Java package organizes Java classes into namespaces, providing a unique namespace for each type it contains. Classes in the same package can access each other's package-private and protected members. java.lang package is imported by default.


What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Answer: An application programming interface is an interface or communication protocol between a client and a server intended to simplify the building of client-side software.

Does java support multiple inheritances, explain why or why not?
Answer: Java doesn’t support multiple inheritances because it creates confusion and complexity.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Answer: Method overloading is creating the methods with same name by passing different arguments. Method overloading happens during run time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Answer: Exceptions are events that occur during the execution of programs that disrupt the normal flow of instructions. Java exception handling is managed via five keywords: try, catch, throw, throws, and finally.


What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods?
Answer: In the Java programming language, the keyword static indicates that the particular member belongs to a type itself, rather than to an instance of that type. This means that only one instance of that static member is created which is shared across all instances of the class. Static has been used in variables and methods by using the keyword static.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Answer: First of all, final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class. Following are different contexts where final is used. When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant. This also means that you must initialize a final variable

What is final, finally and finalize?
Answer: Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed. Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.


What is a constructor?
Answer: A constructor is a special type of subroutine called to create an object. It prepares the new object for use, often accepting arguments that the constructor uses to set required member variables.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer: Yes, we can have multiple constructors in a class.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer: Default constractor



What is "this" keyword in java?
Answer: Keyword “this” is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object. It can be used to refer instance variable of current class. It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor. It can be passed as an argument in the method call.


What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible ways can you use?
Answer: super is used to refer immediate parent class instance variable. We can use super keyword to access the data member or field of parent class.


What is JVM stand for?
Answer: JVM stand for Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer: Yes, JVM is platform independent.


What version of java are you using?
Answer: Java 8.0

What is JAR stand for?
Answer: JAR stand for Java ARchive .




What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer: JDK is for development purpose and it contains JVM so that we can run our java program. JVM is the heart of java programming language and provides platform independence.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer: JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment. It is used to provide runtime environment. It is the implementation of JVM. It physically exists. It contains set of libraries and other files that JVM uses at runtime.

What is compile time and run time?
Answer: Compile-time is the instance where the code we entered is converted to executable while Run-time is the instance where the executable is running. Compile-time checking occurs during the compile time.

What is heap?
Answer: heap is a region of your computer's memory that is not managed automatically, and is not as tightly managed by the CPU. It is a more free-floating region of memory (and is larger). To allocate memory on the heap, we must use malloc() or calloc() , which are built-in C functions.

How java manage its memory?
Answer: The JVM loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code, manages memory (this includes allocating memory from the Operating System (OS), managing Java allocation including heap compaction and removal of garbage objects) and finally provides the runtime environment.


What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer: String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuider are mutable classes. StringBuffer is threading safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not, that’s why StringBuilder is faster than StringBuffer. String concat operator internally uses StringBuffer or StringBuilder class.

What is Singleton class?
Answer: the singleton class restricts the instantiation of the class to one single instance. This is useful when exactly one object is needed to coordinate actions across the system.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer: Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can be persisted to a disk or database or can be sent through streams. The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization.


When to use transient variable in java?

Answer: The Java transient keyword is used on class attributes/variables to indicate that serialization process of such class should ignore such variables while creating a persistent byte stream for any instance of that class. A transient variable is a variable that cannot be serialized.


Difference between while and do..while loop?
Answer: while loop check condition before iteration of the loop, whereas do-while loop, checks the condition after the execution of the statements inside the loop.

What is Enum?
Answer: The Enum in is a data type which contains a fixed set of constants.


What is Iterator?
Answer: ‘Iterator' is an interface which belongs to collection framework. It allows us to traverse the collection, access the data element and remove the data elements of the collection.


Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Answer:

Why is String Immutable in Java?

Answer: The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool. Another reason of why String class is immutable could die due to HashMap. Since Strings are very popular as HashMap key, it's important for them to be immutable so that they can retrieve the value object which was stored in HashMap.


What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?